US telecoms giant AT&T has agreed to combine its WarnerMedia business with Discovery in a deal to create a new streaming giant. 
The tie-up brings one of Hollywood's biggest studios and Discovery's channels under the same ownership. 
AT&T owns CNN, HBO and Warner Bros, after acquiring many brands in a $108. 7bn purchase of Time Warner in 2018. 
The deal also marks the entry of another player into a crowded market. 
The proposed merger would put together movie giant Warner Bros.  Entertainment, which owns the Harry Potter and Batman franchises, with Discovery's home, cooking, nature and science shows. 
This agreement unites two entertainment leaders with complementary content strengths and positions the new company to be one of the leading global direct-to-consumer streaming platforms, said AT&T chief executive John Stankey. 
It will support the fantastic growth and international launch of HBO Max with Discovery's global footprint and create efficiencies which can be re-invested in producing more great content to give consumers what they want. 
WarnerMedia-owned HBO and HBO Max now have around 64 million subscribers worldwide. 
It is currently dwarfed by larger rivals Netflix, which has 208 million subscribers, and Disney+, which has more than 100 million. 
Discovery, whose portfolio includes Animal Planet and the Discovery Channel, reaches more than 88 million US homes, while its Discovery+ streaming service, which launched in January, has 15m subscribers. 
This is a streaming arms race and AT&T is making an offensive strategic move to further bulk up its content in the battle versus Netflix, Disney, and Amazon, Dan Ives from Wedbush Securities told the BBC. 
The Time Warner acquisition and the golden jewel HBO asset was the first step with Discovery - a doubling down on this streaming endeavour, he added. 
Under the terms of the deal, AT&T will receive $43bn and its shareholders will own 71% of the new company, while Discovery shareholders will hold 29%. 
However, before the deal was confirmed, David Cummings, chief investment officer at Aviva, told the BBC that shareholders may be uneasy. 
He agreed that AT&T, in the face of huge streaming competition, needed to increase its amount of content, but added: The market might feel this deals is a bit too late; I expect the market might be a little sceptical. 
When AT&T took over Time Warner three years ago it planned to create a media and telecoms giant that combined content and distribution. 
However, that proved to be a highly costly approach as the company was also expanding its next generation wireless services at the same time. 
AT&T recently added $14bn to its debt pile to fund the purchase of wireless spectrum. 
The Discovery deal is the latest move in the company's steps to reduce those debts. 
In February, AT&T agreed to sell a major stake in satellite television service DirecTV, in deal that valued the business at less than a quarter of its purchase price in 2015. 
AT&T is the world's largest telecoms company in the world by revenues.  It was established in 1877 by Alexander Graham Bell, who obtained the first US patent for the telephone. 
Ryanair boss Michael O'Leary says he is seeing the start of a strong rebound for travel as the easing of lockdown releases pent-up demand. 
Europe's biggest budget airline revealed the scale of the coronavirus collapse in travel - an €815m (£702m) loss and traffic down 81% in the year to March on the previous 12 months. 
But Mr O'Leary said there were signs the recovery has already begun. 
Bookings are up from 500,000 a week in early April to 1. 5 million a week now. 
The rate of bookings suggests there is a huge amount of confidence, he told the BBC.  We are very optimistic for the next couple of months. 
And he predicted that after most European populations are vaccinated by September, the airline should see a particularly strong recovery in October to March, the second half of its financial year. 
For vaccinated Britons going to the beaches of Portugal, Spain and Greece, I think there is very little risk.  Everybody is right to be cautious, but I think everybody can take their holiday in Europe with a high degree of confidence. 
From Monday, holidaymakers from England, Scotland and Wales can fly off for some early summer sun as the ban on foreign holidays is lifted. 
Travellers can now visit 12 countries on the government's green list, including Portugal and Israel, without isolating on their return. 
But the vast majority of tourist destinations remain on the amber and red lists, meaning travellers must quarantine when they get back. 
Mr O'Leary told BBC Breakfast that the air travel sector was offering some good deals for this summer as it tried to kick-start demand after a torrid year. 
But he forecast prices would rise in 2022.  With the collapse and contraction of airlines like Thomas Cook and Alitalia reducing capacity, carriers will be able to push up prices, he said. 
The scale of the financial crisis facing airlines was underlined on Monday when Ryanair posted a record after-tax loss.  The airline said it flew 27. 5 million passengers in the year ending 31 March, down from 149 million the previous year. 
Ryanair's annual €815m loss was slightly better than an €834m loss forecast by many analysts. 
It's better than we predicted, but still a fairly traumatic loss for an airline that has been consistently profitable for our 35-year history, Mr O'Leary said in a pre-recorded statement accompanying the results. 
Long working hours are killing hundreds of thousands of people a year, according to the World Health Organization (WHO). 
The first global study of its kind showed 745,000 people died in 2016 from stroke and heart disease due to long hours. 
The report found that people living in South East Asia and the Western Pacific region were the most affected. 
The WHO also said the trend may worsen due to the coronavirus pandemic. 
The research found that working 55 hours or more a week was associated with a 35% higher risk of stroke and a 17% higher risk of dying from heart disease, compared with a working week of 35 to 40 hours. 
The study, conducted with the International Labour Organization (ILO), also showed almost three quarters of those that died as a result of working long hours were middle-aged or older men. 
Often, the deaths occurred much later in life, sometimes decades later, than the long hours were worked. 
Man with hands over heartGetty Images
Five weeks ago, a post on LinkedIn from 45-year-old Jonathan Frostick gained widespread publicity as he described how he'd had a wake-up call over long working hours. 
The regulatory programme manager working for HSBC had just sat down on a Sunday afternoon to prepare for the working week ahead when he felt a tightness in his chest, a throbbing in his throat, jawline and arm, and difficulty breathing. 
I got to the bedroom so I could lie down, and got the attention of my wife who phoned 999, he said. 
While recovering from his heart-attack, Mr Frostick decided to restructure his approach to work.  I'm not spending all day on Zoom anymore, he said. 
His post struck a chord with hundreds of readers, who shared their experiences of overwork and the impact on their health. 
Mr Frostick doesn't blame his employer for the long hours he was putting in, but one respondent said: Companies continue to push people to their limits without concern for your personal well-being. 
HSBC said everyone at the bank wished Mr Frostick a full and speedy recovery. 
We also recognise the importance of personal health and wellbeing and a good work-life balance.  Over the last year we have redoubled our efforts on health and wellbeing. 
The response to this topic shows how much this is on people's minds and we are encouraging everyone to make their health and wellbeing a top priority. 
While the study did not cover the period of the pandemic, WHO officials said the recent jump in remote working and the economic slowdown may have increased the risks associated with long working hours. 
We have some evidence that shows that when countries go into national lockdown, the number of hours worked increase by about 10%, WHO technical officer Frank Pega said. 
The report said working long hours was estimated to be responsible for about a third of all work-related disease, making it the largest occupational disease burden. 
The researchers said that there were two ways longer working hours led to poor health outcomes: firstly through physiological responses to stress, and secondly because longer hours meant workers were more likely to adopt health-harming behaviours such as tobacco and alcohol use, less sleep and exercise, and an unhealthy diet. 
The number of people working long hours was increasing before the pandemic struck, and was around 9% of the total global population, the WHO said. 
In the UK, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) found that people working from home during the pandemic were putting in an average of six hours of unpaid overtime a week. 
People who did not work from home put in an average of 3. 6 hours a week overtime, the ONS said. 
The WHO suggests that employers should now take this into account when assessing the occupational health risks of their workers. 
Capping hours would be beneficial for employers as that had been shown to increase productivity, Mr Pega said. 
It's really a smart choice to not increase long working hours in an economic crisis. 
Santander has said all of its services are now working as normal, after widespread problems left customers unable to access their money. 
On Saturday the bank's online banking and app stopped working and there were also issues in branches and with cards, cash machines and telephone banking. 
Customers called it a nightmare, with people unable to pay for petrol to get to work and payments being rejected. 
The bank apologised and promised no one will be out of pocket. 
The problems began on Saturday morning and lasted much of the day until about 21:15 BST when Santander tweeted that all of its services were running again as normal. 
However, some customers replied to Santander's tweet saying they were still having problems - including the app still not working, transactions not showing or being unable to use cards online. 
We are very sorry for the inconvenience you've experienced today, said the bank, which has 14 million active UK customers. 
If you need help, some of our branches will be open on Sunday from 10am to 12pm.  We'll publish a list of these tomorrow. 
Earlier, the bank said it will share details on its website and social media channels from Monday about how impacted customers can make a claim. 
The problems on Saturday left many people stuck in difficulty after they were unable to make payments. 
One customer, Marcus Evans from Aberdare in south Wales, told the BBC he had lost a day's wages as he could not buy petrol to travel to his job as a CCTV operator. 
It's been an absolute nightmare, said the former member of the Armed Forces, who also said he could not do his weekly shop.  It's ridiculous. 
I get my military pension and my wages paid into a Co-operative savings account and I transfer money on a weekly basis into my Santander account. 
Mr Evans said Santander should have things in place to ensure that this doesn't happen
Samantha Stewart said she had travelled all the way from her rural home in Argyll to the mainland to go shopping with her mother, when she realised she could not access her money. 
It wasn't until I was in the first store that I'd tried to log on, she said.  I was wanting to transfer money from savings over to my account because I was planning to do quite a big shop. 
Essentially I was left with £27 in my account.  I had to decide whether to chance it with Apple Pay, knowing that it would take me into unarranged overdraft, or to go home. 
Meanwhile, Stephen Curtis, 58, from Gloucester, said he was definitely leaving the bank after the problems. 
He said he was in a car showroom trying to buy a new car when his card was declined.  It was so embarrassing, he said. 
This is unforgivable.  I work in IT, I know about systems, I know about backups and upgrades.  To have this happen, I would get the sack if it happened in my job. 
Another customer, Jason Crossland, from Rotherham, told the BBC he became stuck in an outlet shopping centre with his children, unable to buy enough petrol to get home. 
The head of money at consumer magazine Which? said the technical issues would have left many customers stressed. 
Customers can incur fines, penalties and fees when they're not able to access their finances, so the bank must offer compensation to all those who have been impacted in this way, said Gareth Shaw. 
On Saturday evening, shortly before the problem was fixed, the UK's financial watchdog, the Financial Conduct Authority, said it was aware of the issue and in contact with the firm. 
It is not yet clear what caused the problem.  Planned maintenance had been due to be performed on the Santander mobile banking app overnight on Friday. 
The last remaining Debenhams are closing their doors on Saturday, more than 240 years after the department store began trading. 
Shoppers have flocked to the last remaining outlets to pick up bargains in closing-down sales. 
But the last 28 stores will now be shuttered for good. 
The Debenhams brand will continue to trade online after it was bought by the fashion retailer Boohoo for £55m in January. 
At its height, there were more than 150 Debenhams stores across the UK, but the chain went into administration in 2019 after several years of falling sales. 
The pandemic was the final blow. 
In December, its owners announced the business was being wound down with 12,000 job losses. 
After lockdown, 97 stores reopened to allow the last stock to be cleared, and they have gradually been closed over the last two weeks. 
The last outlets have been plastered with sale signs, offering a mish-mash of items, from bikinis to cafetieres, at bargain basement prices. 
Debenhams was an anchor store, especially in many mid-sized town centres, such as Mansfield, where it opened its shopping centre-based site in 1976. 
Shelves were empty in the cosmetic department this week, while boxes of left-over coat hangers were free to anyone who wanted them. 
But as the shop entered its final few days of trading, there were more customers than there had been for some time, said shop staff. 
They recalled that in its early days, the store sold a huge range of goods, from loft ladders to greenhouses. 
It was so thriving in the 1970s and 80s.  On a Friday afternoon, it was really buzzing with the girls from the factory, said Glenis Thompson. 
Its closure would leave a big big hole in the town, said Julie Howe, another former Debenhams worker. 
It isn't all about online and Covid.  The company lost its way, which is very sad, she added. 
Debenhams traces its roots back to 1778 when William Clark opened a shop in London's West End, selling fabrics, bonnets and parasols. 
By the 1950s, it was the biggest department store in the UK with 110 sites. 
However, in recent years, the shift to online shopping ate into sales and the business floundered. 
It was put up for sale last year, but in the end, the brand will survive online as part of the internet-only fashion firm Boohoo. 
A time-travelling Victorian stumbling upon a modern building site could largely get right to work, says Chris Thompson, managing director of Citu, which specialises in building low-carbon homes. 
That's because many of the materials and tools would be familiar to him. 
The Victorian builder would certainly recognise concrete, which has been around for a long time. 
The world's largest unreinforced concrete dome remains the one at Rome's Pantheon, which is almost 2,000 years old.  The Colosseum is largely concrete too. 
Today we use more concrete than any substance, other than water. 
That means it accounts for about 8% of the carbon dioxide (CO2) we emit into the atmosphere.  That is substantially more than the aviation industry, which makes up about 2. 5% of emissions. 
But some companies are developing concrete that has a much lower CO2 impact. 
Citu is building its headquarters in Leeds from a new low-carbon concrete that it says cuts CO2 emissions by 50% compared to traditional concrete. 
It has used 70 cubic metres of it for the building's foundations. 
This concrete, released last year by Mexico's Cemex under the label Vertua, is one of a series of recent developments helping pave the way to greener concrete. 
Making cement, which makes up 10-15% of concrete, is a carbon-intensive process.  Limestone has to be heated to 1,450C, which normally requires energy from fossil fuels and accounts for 40% of concrete's CO2. 
This separates calcium oxide (which you want) from carbon dioxide (which is the problem). 
This calcium oxide reacts further to form cement.  Grind some into powder, add some sand, gravel and water, and it forms interlocking crystals. 
Voilà, concrete. 
So how can you do all this without releasing so much CO2?
One way is by replacing much of the conventional cement with heated clay and unburnt limestone, says Karen Scrivener, a British academic and head of the construction materials laboratory at Switzerland's Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne. 
For a long time, people (think, Romans) knew you could substitute some of the cement with ash from burning coal (or volcanoes).  Or more recently, slag from blast furnaces.  This even improved concrete's strength and durability. 
Prof Scrivener was approached by Prof Fernando Martirena from Cuba, who thought it might be possible to use clay in the production of concrete. 
So together they worked out a way to replace a really big chunk of conventional cement, and produce equally strong concrete. 
Not only would that mean 40% less CO2, it also works with existing equipment, according to Prof Scrivener. 
And that's crucial for a material that has to be competitively priced. 
Two companies last year began commercially cooking up this product, called LC3 (for limestone calcined clay cement). 
I reckon next year about 10 plants are going into operation, and really we can see an exponential take-off after that, she says. 
A further 10-20% savings on CO2 emissions can come from finding new ways of making cement more reactive, she adds. 
Often people pour in more cement than they actually need, to get early strength. 
But if you put in very tiny amounts of other minerals instead, that seems to increase the reactivity too, she says. 
Another approach is just coming up with an utterly different way to clench the sand and stone particles together, without cooking limestone into calcium oxide. 
This is what Vertua does, says Davide Zampini, head of research for Cemex, the world's second biggest building materials business. 
It's a binder that's rich in aluminosilicates (minerals made from aluminium and silicon), and we have produced chemicals to activate those, and go through a reaction called geopolymerisation, he explains. 
This forms a 3D network of molecules, and a solid binder to grip sand and stone in place. 
But it's not as cheap as conventional concrete, admits Dr Zampini. 
You have to find a customer who is really keen on significantly reducing the CO2 footprint of their buildings, he says, like Citu in Leeds. 
A third approach is using a big steel tube, says Daniel Rennie, co-ordinator of a project called LEILAC (Low Emissions Intensity Lime and Cement). 
It's 60m (197ft) tall.  You can add it to an existing cement plant. 
You chuck materials down from the top and it gently floats down the tube, which is heated from the outside. 
As CO2 comes off the particles, we just capture it at the top, the calcium oxide continues to the bottom and continues its journey in the cement-making process, he says. 
The project is run by Calix, an Australian company that makes environmentally sustainable technology for industry. 
The company had been thinking about how to decarbonise another building material. 
And just, the penny dropped, and we could apply this to cement, Mr Rennie says. 
A little pilot tower, built in 2019, is now accounting for 5% of production at Heidelberg Cement's Lixhe plant in Belgium. 
This is capturing about 25,000 tonnes a year of CO2. 
In Germany, they're building one at another Heidelberg plant in Hanover, where 20% of total production will go through the new process, capturing about 100,000 tonnes of CO2 a year. 
Once captured, the CO2 is compressed, shipped in a barge to Norway, and stored in an empty oil reservoir under the North Sea. 
Normally 90% of the cost is capturing the carbon, so this just leaves the cost of transport and storage. 
I've been in this industry 20 years, and I really see a big change, says Claude Loréa, cement director from the Global Cement and Concrete Association. 
Stuff we dreamed about 20 years ago is now coming through, she adds. 
And cement makers have already reduced their carbon emissions almost by 20% since 1990, she says, largely by making kilns more energy-efficient. 
Still, while we can probably get overall CO2 emissions down by 60-80%, we'll still end up with some we'll need to capture and store, says Prof Scrivener. 
Also, there's no point looking for intricate solutions that can just be used in some very sophisticated factories in the US, she says. 
Around 90% of future cement production will take place outside the wealthy OECD countries. 
A concrete path to cutting concrete's carbon emissions needs alternatives that will work well and cheaply for the coming building booms in India and Africa. 
Concrete may have been born in Rome and Britain. 
But China made more concrete between 2011 and 2013 than the US did in the whole 20th Century. 
The UK economy is set to grow at its fastest pace since the Second World War, overtaking the US, according to Bank of England economist Andy Haldane. 
Low Covid infection rates and vaccinations are leading to a surge in consumer spending, he said. 
The unemployment rate is also lower than expected. 
However, there is a risk of 1970s-style inflation rates with boom turning to bust, he added. 
Writing in a column for the Daily Mail, Mr Haldane said: Spring has sprung for the UK economy.  This year it is set to grow at its fastest pace since the Second World War. 
It is easy to see why.  As Covid infection rates have fallen sharply and the vaccination programme has been rolled out, the health risks facing us have plummeted. 
Mr Haldane, who has previously warned against pessimistic views of the economy, said consumers are returning to shops, pubs and restaurants with retail spending above pre-Covid levels. 
The housing market is also booming, while hiring and investment among businesses is also picking up, he said. 
Mr Haldane predicts as many new jobs will be created this year that are lost with unemployment figures revised down from 7. 75% to less than 5. 5%. 
A year from now, it is realistic to expect UK growth to be in double-digits, activity to be comfortably above pre-Covid levels and unemployment to be falling, Mr Haldane said. 
Such a tennis ball bounce in the UK economy would put it at the top of the G7 growth league table. 
Mr Haldane, who sits on the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee, predicted a sharp, V-shaped recovery last year which did not materialise. 
Official figures published earlier this week showed the UK economy shrank by 1. 5% in the first three months of 2021, but gathered speed in March as lockdown restrictions began to ease. 
The reopening of schools and strong retail spending helped the economy grow 2. 1% in March, its fastest monthly growth since last August. 
Mr Haldane said if health and unemployment risks continue to remain low, spending is likely to continue. 
However, he warned a rise in inflation levels could turn boom to bust derailing the country's recovery. 
The most likely cause of such a bust, history tells us, is an unwanted bout of inflation. 
He added: And experience during the 1970s and 1980s demonstrates that, once out of the bottle, the inflation genie is notoriously difficult to get back in. 
Mr Haldane estimates inflation levels by the end of this year could be above its 2% target and has voted for the Bank of England to scale back quantitative easing. 
Doing so now reduces the risk of a handbrake turn - for borrowing costs and the economy - down the road, with all of the disruption this would entail for our jobs and finances, he said. 
The operator of the biggest fuel pipeline in the US announced it would resume operations on Wednesday evening after a five-day closure. 
A ransomware cyber-attack forced Colonial Pipeline to shut down the main part of its network on Friday. 
The 5,500-mile (8,900km) pipeline usually carries 2. 5 million barrels a day on the East Coast. 
The closure saw supplies tighten across the US, with prices rising and a number of states declaring an emergency. 
Colonial Pipeline warned in a press release that it could take several days for the delivery supply chain to return to normal. 
Some markets served by Colonial Pipeline may experience, or continue to experience, intermittent service interruptions during the start-up period, they added in a statement. 
The FBI has accused a criminal gang called DarkSide of being behind the ransomware attack. 
Colonial has said it will not pay the ransom demanded by the hackers. 
US petrol prices rose on Wednesday as motorists queued to fill up their cars on the sixth day of the Colonial Pipeline shutdown. 
The average price per gallon hit $3. 008 (£2. 14) - the highest level seen since October 2014, according to the Automobile Association of America. 
A spokeswoman said that the shutdown and fluctuating demand had led to higher prices. 
The pipeline operator said on Wednesday that it had restarted operations, but it warned that it would take several days for the product delivery supply chain to return to normal. 
Governors in the states of Florida, Virginia, North Carolina and Georgia have all declared states of emergency, which mean they can introduce temporary rules to ease prices in their areas as a result. 
According to data collated by tracking firm GasBuddy, at least 3,500 petrol stations had run dry across Virginia, North Carolina and and several other states on Wednesday. 
Virginia and Georgia were among the worst-affected, with more than 40% of petrol stations it monitors suffering from outages, it said on its website.  In North Carolina, 65% of petrol stations had fuel outages. 
Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm said earlier in the week that the firm Colonial could make a decision on restarting operations on Wednesday.  She did caution, however, that the full pipeline might not be active for days after that. 
Despite the government's appeal to consumers not to panic-buy, many motorists have been seen queuing to fill up their cars. 
#GasShortage2021 was also trending on social media, with some joking that they were reminded of the run on toilet paper seen at the beginning of the coronavirus crisis. 
Others posted photos which appeared to show customers filling up plastic bags with petrol. 
US Transport Secretary Pete Buttigieg said on Tuesday that the Biden administration was working around the clock to help deal with any shortages. 
This is a time to be sensible and to be safe, of course we understand the concern in areas where people are encountering temporary supply disruptions, he said. 
But hoarding does not make things better, and under no circumstances should gasoline ever be put into anything but a vehicle directly or an approved container, and that of course remains true no matter what else is going on. 
The White House also said officials were considering new ways to alleviate any shortages, such as extending working hours for those transporting fuel. 
Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) is shutting its two main car factories temporarily due to a shortage of computer chips. 
The difficulties at Britain's biggest carmaker echo similar problems at other manufacturers, including Ford, who have been hit by a global shortage of chips. 
JLR said there would be a limited period of closure at its Halewood and Castle Bromwich sites from Monday. 
A mixture of strong demand and Covid shutdowns at chipmakers has also hit phone, TV and video games companies. 
Tata-owned JLR said in a statement: We have adjusted production schedules for certain vehicles which means that our Castle Bromwich and Halewood manufacturing plants will be operating a limited period of non-production from Monday 26th April. 
We are working closely with affected suppliers to resolve the issues and minimise the impact on customer orders wherever possible.  Production at a third factory, at Solihull, will continue. 
The Castle Bromwich factory makes the Jaguar XE, XF and F-Type models, and employs about 1,900 people.  Halewood makes the Range Rover, Evoque and the Land Rover Discovery Sport, and has about 4,000 workers. 
The Covid-19 pandemic has driven up demand for semiconductor chips for use in electronics such as computers, as people worked from home, and suppliers are struggling to adjust. 
There has also been a fire at a Japanese company, part of Renesas Electronics, one of the world's biggest makers of semiconductors for the car industry. 
Also on Thursday, France's Renault warned that the chip shortage was worsening.  On Wednesday, carmaker Stellantis, which owns the UK Vauxhall brand, said it would replace digital speedometers with more old-fashioned analogue ones in one of its Peugeot models, as the fallout continues. 
Daimler, General Motors and Volkswagen have all suspended production lines at various times in recent weeks. 
Modern cars contain complex electronics and are heavily reliant on semiconductors, which are used in systems ranging from engine management to parking cameras. 
Today's cars are computers on wheels, festooned with electronics such as engine management systems, driver aids, cameras and entertainment gadgets. 
All of these need semiconductors, and right now the entire industry is struggling to get enough of them.  It's fighting the consumer electronics sector for the supplies that are available. 
What has made the auto industry particularly vulnerable is its reliance on just-in-time delivery, where parts are brought in when needed, rather than being stockpiled. 
Normally this is seen as the efficient way to do things - but the semiconductor shortage has shown just what can happen when normally well-oiled supply chains seize up. 
Further disruption over the coming weeks and months is inevitable, because it takes time to ramp up chip production.  The question now is what carmakers can do to ensure they aren't caught out by a similar supply squeeze in future. 
